---
layout: post
title:  "Digital Health Hack #1 - Summer 2014"
date:   2014-07-04 12:00:00
categories: hackathon
---

In mid-July 2014, over 50 people descended on The Oxford Launchpad for the first DHOx Digital Health Hack, held jointly with Green Templeton College’s Future Ageing program. The aim of the weekend was to bring together people of different skill sets and expertise to work together on new digital health projects, to create new working relationships and interactions between the cross-disciplinary and cross-sector members of the Digital Health Oxford group, and to identify and come up with solutions to important problems in the themes of Global Health, Care, Patient Experience, and Management in Medicine.

As an introduction to the weekend, DHOx #5 was held on the previous Monday, in the fantastic lecture theatre at the Oxford Martin School, with talks related to the hackathon themes by Dr Fred Hersch (The George Institute, University of Oxford), Prof Sue Ziebland (HEXI, University of Oxford), and Dr Reynold Greenlaw (Oxford Computer Consultants), followed by a drinks reception at The Kings Arms pub, with the whole evening sponsored by RowAnalytics.  Participants at the hack weekend collaborated before the hack, using Trello to pitch ideas, potential solutions, and give a brief overview of their backgrounds and skills.

The weekend itself kicked off with informal networking over coffee and pastries at The Launchpad, followed by an introduction about the weekend and venue from Richie and James, a quick one-liner by each person about who they were, and then the pitches! Over 20 ideas were pitched, ranging from a single idea / problem to idea + potential solution, suggested from a variety of people from both clinical and digital backgrounds.  Then it was over to the participants to form teams, decide on what project to tackle, and start hacking!

Over 50 people attended over the weekend, and in addition to the five main teams, there was a fantastic group of mentors who were available to ask questions, provide advice, and help guide the teams:

- Prof Sir Muir Gray
- Dr Chris Paton
- Dr Fred Hersch
- Tony Hart
- Dr Nick Edwards
- Mark Evans
- Dr Anant Jani
- James Murray
- Mark Stone
- Robin Chard

The projects included (some described by team members):

#### TaBulator
> TaBulator is a low-cost solution for reading the results of the LAM test for TB in HIV positive patients.  Using a Raspberry Pi, usb-camera, bike light (“and some power tools”), the team created a box that sensed when a test strip was inserted, automatically read and processed the result, feeding back a quantified reading, a task that is ordinarily especially tricky in the important weakly positive cases.  The team has since received interest from a number of university research groups in Oxford and London as to potential uses for this low-cost and potential large-impact tool.

#### mirisc
>“Having run an Oxford digital agency for fifteen years, I’ve grown profoundly interested in how digital technologies can advance the delivery of healthcare. My particular leanings are towards medical error reporting/analysis and learning outcomes. 

>Even though I’m surrounded by developers on a daily basis, I found the health hack weekend an eye-opening and inspirational environment; not only was the quality of thought in the room extremely high, there was also a simmering culture of altruistic commitment.

>Startled by the continuing lack of risk communication in clinical consultations, my team developed the concept-model ‘mirisc’, a visual aid for disseminating and understanding comparative risks on the fly.”

#### Quantified Health
> “The aim of the Quantified Health project was to improve the quality of lifestyle advice for people with chronic health conditions. We prototyped an app that prompted you to track your health, then displayed how your health has changed over time, and then displayed the beneficial of health interventions across the population. The team all met at DHOx! Doctor/med student/developer x2.

#### WaitTracker
>WaitTracker provides real-time feedback for waiting times in different hospital or clinic waiting rooms in an area, using either data from hospital record systems, or else using sensors in-clinic to measure the number of people in each room.  This was then linked to user-added data on why they were visiting that clinic / hospital, and provided alternative options, such as visiting a local small injuries clinic rather than waiting in a busy A&E, if appropriate.  The team was formed by a number of clinicians and developers, from Oxford and Birmingham.

#### EVAS (EventAssist)
>“Evas, or Event Assist, is a social app designed to help users request assistance from their friends and family in day-to-day life, and manage the responses. It’s based around creating events and broadcasting them across social networks (or privately send a link). Each event will have an explanation of the assistance required, and respondents reply with a simple yes, no, or maybe. The user can then get in contact with respondents through the app. An enhancement would be to track positive responses and find out who amongst your respondents is more likely to respond to certain types of events. At the moment a prototype does not exist, but hopefully something will be ready by the next DHOx Hack.”
 
A great many thanks are due to the organisers, especially to Julianne Williams (DHOx), James Murray (The Launchpad), and Alexander Finlayson (Green Templeton College), along with help from a large number of people behind the scenes.

