---
layout: post
title:  "Digital Health Hack #3 - March 2015"
date:   2015-04-23 12:00:00
categories: hackathon
---

HELP at the Health Hack Weekend

The HELP (Health Emergency Learning Platform) team used the Digital Health Hack weekend to start work on a new mobile game that aims to use mobile phones to train healthcare workers in low-income countries to manage paediatric emergencies.

The idea for HELP came from Prof Mike English, a University of Oxford professor and a paediatrician who has lived and worked in Kenya for the last 20 years. Working with colleagues from the Kenyan Ministry of Health, the University of Nairobi and other organisations in Kenya, he helped develop a real-life training programme and set of guidelines for managing the care of young children in hospitals in Kenya. After the success of the guidelines and the real-life training now provided by the Kenya Paediatric Association, Prof English had the idea of using a mobile phone game to spread the training further. The Digital Health Hack looked like a great place to start the development of the game, and, thanks to a grant from the Skoll Centre for Entrepreneurship at the Said Business School, Mike was able to bring out a team of Kenyan clinicians, researchers and programmers to Oxford for the weekend that included Prof. Grace Irimu from Nairobi, one of the trainings founding members.

The team from Nairobi were also joined for several hours on Saturday by developers from White October, a local Oxfordshire digital agency, who were able to guide us through an interactive exercise to design the game mechanics (scoring, features and flow of learning scenarios).

The HELP team links expertise from Oxford University and the Oxford University Hospitals Trust to partners in Kenya and has now got to the stage where we are almost ready to develop the first “minimal viable product” of the game which White October will be working on for us over the next few weeks. Once this stage is completed, we will try the game out on healthcare workers on the ground in Kenya. We are currently seeking investment to support the next stage of development of the app – if you would like to learn more, please contact Sarah Deakin at Isis Innovation (Sarah.Deakin@isis.ox.ac.uk, phone: 01865 614410).


